# Conditions And Semaphores:

## Condition
- Waits on a signal from another thread.

- Example:
    - Another thread has finished execution.
    - Curret thread can procede to perform.

A condition object has acquire() and release() methods that call the corresponding methods of the associated lock. It also has a wait() method, and notify() and notifyAll() methods. These three must only be called after the calling thread has acquired the lock.

**Condition Class Method:**

- ``acquire(*args)`` This method is used to acquire the lock. This method calls the corresponding acquire() method on the underlying lock present in the condition object; The return value is whatever that method returns.

- ``release()`` this method is used to release the lock. This method calls the corresponding release() method on the underlying lock present in the condition object.

- ``notify()`` It wakes up any thread waiting on the corresponding condition. This must only be called when the calling thread has acquired the lock. Also, calling this method will wake only one waiting thread.

- ``notifyAll()`` It wakes up all the threads waiting on this condition. This method acts like notify() method, but wakes up all the waiting threads instead of one.

- ``wait([timeout])`` This method is used to block the thread and make it wait until some other thread notifies it by calling the ``notify()`` or ``notifyAll()`` method on the same condition object or until the timeout occurs. This must only be called when the calling thread has acquired the lock. When called, this method releases the lock and then blocks the thread until it is awakened by a ``notify()`` or ``notifyAll()`` call for the same condition variable from some other thread, or until the timeout occurs. This method returns True if it is released because of ``notify()`` or ``notifyAll()`` method else if timeout occurs this method will return False boolean value.

**Example:**

- Create two different classes - inherit from thread class.

- Publisher class:
    - Publish new integers to integer array
    - Notify to subscriber

- Subscriber class:
    - New integer to be consumed from array

